# docs

This folder holds rendered versions (= HTML files) of all your RMarkdown and jupyter notebooks files for easy browsing (simply double click the `index.html` file to view a list with links to each file). The HTML files can be easily generated/updated by knitting the `docs.Rmd` markdown file in this folder (this may or may not work on Windows, sorry). Rendered files are only (re)generated if they do not yet exist or if the source notebook that created them has changed in any way. If you want to force regeneration of a rendered HTML file, simply delete it from this directory and re-knit the `docs.Rmd` markdown file. You can also manually add additional HTML files and provide links or other materials in the `index.Rmd` file. 

To generate the HTML files, go into the `docs` folder and knit the `docs.Rmd` markdown file (this may or may not work on Windows, sorry). Note that if you are using Jupyter notebooks in a python virtual environment, you have to set the `py_venv` variable in the `docs.Rmd` file. Rendered files of your reports are only (re)generated if they do not yet exist or if the source notebook that created them has changed in any way. If you want to force regeneration of a rendered HTML file, simply delete it from the `docs` directory and re-knit the `docs.Rmd` markdown file. You can also manually add additional HTML files and provide links or other materials in the `index.Rmd` file. 

Lastly, this directory *can* be exposed to the public web if you want to. To enable this, go to your repository settings and scroll down to `Github Pages` and select `master branch /docs folder` in the `Source` dropdown (this will not affect the rest of your repository, only the `docs` folder, the rest will stay private unless you make the entire repository public). The page will reload and when you scroll back down to the `Github Pages` settings it will show you at what webaddress the contents of your docs directory will be available (for example, http:// http://www.kopflab.org/YOUR_REPOSITORY_NAME/ if your repository is in this organization). Please note that it usually takes a few minutes for the page to be ready when you first switch this on so check back later if the page does not load immediately.